unit one making a phone call hello good
morning is Albert there this is al wow
this is Bob what are you doing Bob I'm
sleeping what time is it it's 8 a.m.
time to rise and shine 8 a.m. huh oh no
I'll be late for work
no no no no no today's Saturday you do
not have to work today Oh Saturday yeah
that's right no work today
oh that's good hey are you free today
huh
today is Saturday yeah yeah I'm free
would you like to do something together
today that sounds good what do you want
to do I don't know what do you want to
do I don't know either huh
why don't you come to my house and we'll
think of something okay I'll be there in
about an hour okay see you later
see ya do it to a friend hello who is it
it's me Bob hey Bob come on in I've been
waiting for you hi how are you I'm okay
yes I'm still a little bit sleepy I
haven't had my coffee yet hmm
I understand do you want something to
drink
do you have any fresh-squeezed orange
juice
Oh No I'm out of orange juice would you
like some grape juice grape juice hmm
that would be great
oh okay sorry out of grape juice -
that's too bad
have you had breakfast yet no have you
no I haven't
are you hungry yes I am let's go out and
get something to eat okay that sounds
good my aunt has a breakfast shop near
here great let's go there okay let's go
unit three reading and introduction hi
al how are you I'm fine thank you in
here I'm doing good
who's your friend oh this is Bob we went
to school together Bob this is Juanita
hi nice to meet you honey time hi nice
to meet you too
you have a beautiful smile thank you
you're not that handsome but you look
okay wow thanks Juanita is my aunt here
no she isn't she should be in around ten
here's some menus thank you can I get
you anything to drink um I'll have
coffee please okay would you like sugar
and milk I like my coffee black
okay one black coffee I'll have
fresh-squeezed orange juice please we
don't have any orange juice I'll be
right back for
breakfast recommendation what do you
like to eat for breakfast I like a large
breakfast I like a large lunch large
lunch makes me sleepy anyway what do you
recommend for breakfast
hmm the pancakes are good pancakes
delicious what else um do you like eggs
yes I like eggs huh you could have some
scrambled eggs with toast mm or
sunny-side up eggs yummy or sunny-side
up right or an omelet omelets
I love omelets cheese omelets ham
omelets vegetable omelets mmm mixed
fruit mixed fruit with yogurt makes a
good breakfast that's right and fruit
has many vitamins too what else what
else you could have a cup of coffee and
a blueberry muffin
hmm muffin and a cup of coffee
sounds good so do you you know what you
want to get yes I do
and thank you for your recommendations
you're welcome
so what will you get a hamburger a
hamburger yes and ice cream
by ordering food here is your coffee al
and here's your water
thank you you guys ready to order what
do you like to have for breakfast I
usually like to have an omelet okay that
sounds good
I'll have a cheese omelet okay one
omelet do you have pancakes yes how many
would you like three please and bacon
three pancakes and bacon
would you like toast toast hmm toast
sounds good yes three pieces of toast
would you like anything else do you have
any fresh fruit yes today we have fruit
salad okay fruit salad and that's all
salad how about you Bob what would you
like to eat
I would like hamburger and ice cream
excuse me I would like hamburger and ice
cream please a hamburger and ice cream
for breakfast are you crazy
no I'm I'm hungry okay one hamburger
what kind of ice cream do you want what
kind of ice cream do you have see we
have chocolate vanilla and strawberry
vanilla Smith wouldn't know it okay unit
six
please ha that was a good breakfast yes
it was
are you full I'm very full you ate a lot
I was so hungry
I could have eaten a horse good thing we
didn't go to the racetrack ha ha ha ah
that reminds me what are we doing today
let's go see a movie let's pay the bill
first then we'll go see a movie ok we'll
see a movie
I need that check please ok just a
moment would you guys like to pay
together or separate ah oh my god I
forgot my money oh that's ok
I have enough uh together please ok the
total for your breakfast is 10:30 mm-hmm
my and usually gives me a 50% discount
oh I'm sorry I forgot
that'll be 5:15 here's $7 you can keep
the change
really keep the change yes it's a tip
for you Thank You al yeah thanks al
oh I'll pay you back when we get to an
ATM oh don't worry it's just breakfast
I'll get lunch are you sure I in a lot
ooh
I forgot about that minute 7
our friend Bob isn't that Michelle
Michelle who Michelle love that we all
went to school together here she comes
hi hey Michelle hi hi um how can I help
you it's me al
we went to school together all right
oh my god how are you I'm fine
did you Oh missed you so much
Wow thank you I thought I've never seen
you again it's some surprise oh you bet
Oh how's life are you married no I'm not
married yet so you're single then free
and single how about you are you working
yeah I have a shop at the mall really
what do you sell well it's a mobile
phone shop so I sell mobile phones and
accessories at the mall hey Bob and I
are gonna go see a movie at the mall
today interesting anyways and then Bob
is gonna buy a phone today really well
then you can come to my shop what's your
shop called it's called ring me I know
that shop where is it it's on the third
floor at the mall okay
yeah well I'm sorry but I have to go now
I hope to see you later Bobby bye you
too unit 8
how is your car hey al where's your car
no I took it to the repair shop oh did
you have an accident no I left it with
the mechanic for a tune-up when will it
be ready the mechanic said it will be
ready on Monday that's such a long time
yeah it is a long time are you planning
on going on a trip no I just take it to
the mechanics every 3,000 kilometers or
so why do you do that
it's very old it needs a lot of care how
old is your car
it's a 1975 model ha that's not so old
my grandmother was born in 1912 well I
guess compared to your grandmother my
car isn't that old hey wait a minute how
are we going to get to the movie huh we
can walk or go by train up to you are
you crazy
walk the shopping mall is much too far
well in that case we'll go by train
route it 9 about the Train so Bob do you
take the train often yes al almost every
day almost every day that's a lot well I
enjoy the train it's very convenient I
see and it's the fastest way to travel
across town are there many people on the
train during the rush hour well there
are many people in the morning before
work and there are many people in the
evening after work what about other
times at other times no not so many
people and there's never a traffic jam
on the train there's never any traffic
jam oh that's good
it's the fastest way to travel yeah you
know I think it's faster than driving in
a car and the Train is not very
expensive hey Bob look at that sign the
University uh uh we're waiting for the
wrong train we're on the wrong platform
teacher yes we're on the wrong platform
so now what do we do well we can take it
taxi taxis are good yes taxis are good
let's take a taxi and we won't waste our
time waiting for the wrong train unit
ten a pair of shoes shoes are lovely can
I see them which ones do you like that
black hair looks really cool umm the
black ones yeah the black ones they're
quite lovely imported from Italy I've
been to Italy how much are they
these shoes are $80 $80 that's so
expensive
not so expensive only $40 for one shoe
do you have another pair of black shoes
this pair only twenty dollars why are
these shoes so much cheaper because
they're made here hmm made here what
about the quality the quality is very
good these shoes will last a long time
how
fifteen dollars for the pair oh I'm
sorry not enough eighteen I'll give you
sixteen okay for you special price
sixteen dollars would you like a bag no
that's okay thanks anyway I'll wear them
unit 11 buying a phone hey Michelle hi
hi nice to see you again
nice to see you too hey al are those new
shoes why yes they are thank you for
noticing hmm I got a new pair of shoes
and I'm going to get a new mobile phone
today oh well you've come to the right
place have you ever had a mobile phone
before no this will be my first phone
don't worry it's easy may I ask why do
you want to phone oh because al won't
let me borrow his anymore that's a good
reason why else well everybody else
seems to have a mobile phone maybe I
should have one too that's another good
reason so what features would you like a
loud ringtone
take it easy and it should vibrate I
recommend this one this one great thanks
I'll take it
great hey how do you like my new phone
unit twelve directions to the toilet is
something wrong ah okay do you have a
toilet here oh no I'm so sorry there is
no toilet in this shop huh okay uh where
is a toilet well there is a public
toilet close to here yeah
where where is it it's really hard to
find if you don't know where it is okay
okay go out the door and take a left
okay okay
out the door left and then and then walk
15 meters until you see a pet fish shop
okay okay
pet shop and then and then you'll see a
staircase there go down the stairs up
the stairs and then no no no not up the
stairs down the stairs and then you'll
see a waterfall and then take her right
okay right at the waterfall and then and
the toilet is there oh thank you thank
you
um so out the door is it right or left
maybe I should draw you a map
never mind I'll find the toilet myself
hey good luck call me if you get lost
unit 13
make an appointment for later oh that
was not easy but I finally found the
toilet are you ready to go Bob yes al
I'm ready
do you want to invite Rachelle yeah hey
Michelle would you like to go see a
movie with us
wow that sounds like fun where will you
go what will be going in about another
ten minutes ten minutes oh that is too
soon I have to wait for the staff to
arrive when will your staff arrive about
an hour
please go on without me no no no no no
we can wait oh go on without me what
about after the movie what will you be
free then Michelle well I'm supposed to
meet a friend in about two hours
and then I'm just going to go home
so you're a busy night well why don't
you stop here after the movie and tell
me how it was yeah that would be great
okay uh we'll see you here after the
movie in about two hours okay sounds
great okay okay bye bye
unit 14
choosing a movie wow this sure is a big
theater yeah they have ten movie screens
do you want to see every movie I don't
think so I think one movie is enough
what's this about iron ladies - oh
that's a foreign film it's about a
transsexual volleyball team I've seen it
well how about the trek have you seen
the trek not yet it's an action movie
yeah I want to see that too oh but it's
not out yet oh yeah coming soon have you
seen our two hearts what's that about oh
it's a love story about this man and
this woman and they're lucky enough
enough if it's a love story I don't want
to watch it why not
they're so sad and romantic that's right
and the last time we watched a love
story you cried
I remember that how is such a good story
let's watch a comedy okay I like to
laugh how about full school I read about
that in the newspaper it's supposed to
be very funny okay let's watch full
school but we better hurry
it starts in 10 minutes perfect just
enough time to get tickets and to go to
the snack bar unit 15 what a coincidence
hey Michelle we're back I forgot my
phone I know I kept it for you
[Applause]
did you like the movie yeah it was
really funny I laughed a lot what movie
was it it was called full school oh
that's a very nice theater upstairs yeah
and it's really comfortable and out ate
a lot the food there is really good
excuse me hello okay sure
see you soon bye bye that was my friend
she's coming soon where is she now
upstairs upstairs we were just upstairs
the theater is upstairs you know I can't
wait to go back and visit that snack
[Laughter]
Juanita
hello al hey Bob you know each other
I've known Juanita for a long time and I
met Juanita just today you're getting
money nice my roommate yeah we're amazed
what a coincidence
yeah that's quite a coincidence hey we
should all go out sometime
it could be fun that sounds like a great
idea why don't we have dinner or
something sounds great okay ah sorry
not tonight I am too tired huh how about
later in the week perfect
unit 16 making a date hello hi Michelle
this is al hi al how are you fine thank
you
I'm calling to see if you and wanita are
free this Thursday why what's happening
this Thursday well if you and wanita are
free I would like to invite you to
dinner
Oh dinner this Thursday um well I'm not
free but when it is oh that's too bad
I'm sure Bob will be sorry to hear that
Oh Bob will be there too yes of course
okay let me check my schedule one more
time okay hey guess what I am free that
evening super and and how about Juanita
let me ask her yes um yes she seems to
be free too great can we meet at 7:00
p.m.
yes where shall we meet how about KFC
KFC I'm just joking yeah actually I'm
making reservations at the Chateau de
meat isn't that an expensive French
restaurant yes but I have a coupon eat
for pay - oh that's great so can we meet
there at 7:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. this
Thursday we will be there okay bye bye
unit 17 going to the shop
Rachelle hmm I'm going to the corner
store and you want anything wait where
are you going the corner store you know
7-eleven do you want anything
yeah I'd like a loaf of bread loaf of
bread okay I'll be right back
wait wait yeah that was something else
a loaf of bread and something else
thank you huh
I know a roll of tissue right I'm so
glad you said that we're out of tissue
okay
I'll be right back wait wait wait
yeah can you check whether they have
today's newspaper think by now they're
probably out of today's paper well if
they have it great if they don't forget
about it
okay I'll be back wait oh yeah
just remembered something can you get me
some toothpaste some toothpaste yes mint
flavor okay I'll be back and a large box
of laundry soap do you have a pen there
you go I better write this down okay
well bred right bred and tissue mm-hmm
and a newspaper if they have them hmm
so right mm-hmm
oh I know a light bulb for my closet a
light bulb for your closet wait I
changed my mind changed your mind yeah
uncle by myself tomorrow
units AC postponing Vinita yes I have
bad news bad news what is it I cannot go
to the dinner tomorrow I can't go to
dinner
why not I forgot I have a dentist
appointment oh that's no problem just
cancel it
I can't sure you can it's easy just call
the dentist office and cancel it
no you don't understand he's a popular
dentist it will take me another month
just to make another appointment Wow why
are you going to the dentist are you in
pain no I have to have a cavity filled
that's no problem I can fill it for you
right here what oh that's all right I
was just really excited about going to
dinner with al I know I feel terrible
and that's okay are you free on Friday
yeah in the evening me too hey maybe we
can move the date to Friday good idea
I'll call al and see if we can postpone
until Friday that sounds perfect
unit 19 passing a message hello hi Alex
Juanita oh hey oh I Nita how are you
this evening
not so good sorry to say oh really what
what's wrong
are you okay well I'm fine
but I was calling to see if we can
postpone our date you want to postpone
our date yeah see michelle has a dental
appointment and she can't cancel it
oh I see
mm-hmm well that does sound important
it's rather important
so when do you want to postpone our date
to Friday okay Friday this Friday like
the day after tomorrow
yes is that okay yeah that that's great
I was so happy I thought you were going
to postpone it longer no way I've really
been looking forward to going out to
dinner with you involved and Michelle
I know she's been looking forward to it
too that's great can you please tell if
you see him yeah sure I'll tell Bob that
we've postponed dinner until Friday okay
that's all thanks well thank you too bye
Bob we've postponed dinner until Friday
Friday okay no problem unit 20 making a
reservation I'm glad they called because
you like Michelle well yes but I forgot
to make a reservation whoops yeah I'll
call and make a reservation now good
evening
shattered to me hello I'd like to make a
reservation please yes sir for what day
Friday Friday yes sir how many people in
your party four people two men and two
women very good for you sir what time
would you like the reservation for we
will arrive at 7:00 p.m. I'm afraid I do
not have anything available for 7:00
p.m. sir
I do have a table available for 7:30
p.m.
7:30 that would be great
would you prefer smoking or non-smoking
thank you your name please sir father
Albert
ha ha very good mr. filfo
you have a reservation for for 7:30 p.m.
this Friday non-smoking great thank you
so much my pleasure sir units 21 at the
restaurant this is a nice restaurant yes
thank you for inviting us
I hear the food is delicious this is the
nicest restaurant I have ever been to in
my life Bob do you have your gift ready
yes al I do Michelle I need that Bob and
I have gifts for you
oh you shouldn't have
well we decided flowers are too boring
and chocolate will make you fat
so we put our heads together to come up
with some really exciting gifts you guys
are so kind yes you two are so very
thoughtful Bob would you like to go
first
yes al don't mind if I do Juanita this
is 4-year goldfish no not a goldfish
it's an oscar fish well thank you I
think and when it gets bigger it eats
the goldfish
that's disgusting Wow now for you
Michelle voila what is this some sort of
dart board wow you're so handsome in
your fixture what do you think do you
like your gift well I really like the
fish Juanita I really like your picture
Michelle unit 22 making a toast the
dinner was delicious and the company was
excellent I'm glad you like your picture
Juanita yes I really do thank you I like
my fish I can't wait to eat it
so do you have a name for it yet no not
yet but I'll think of one soon isn't
life funny yes especially the way you
like Michelle but I like you and
Michelle likes me but I like ya
it makes me dizzy just thinking about it
wait I'm confused I don't know what
they're like al or Bob so such a nice
dinner
we'll have to do it again next time
Michelle and I will get gifts for you
and don't forget that it's okay to trade
with each other I've had such a nice
time this evening I have to thank you
all for a wonderful time let's make a
toast to everybody liking everybody else
and a beautiful friendship may it last
forever forever and a day
cheers then before change changing
don't forget the ending chip change
change here means you want to make
something different change change and
change if the verb or maybe the now okay
change is always that one now or verb
and if we want to make the blue form or
maybe you want to add at s at the end
you say changes changes changes change
once in the bus so we don't have the
stress so to say change and here changes
changes that mean to syllabuses so we
add stress here